When I think of graphs this is the mental model I have in my head

1. Graph Traversal (The most broad type of graph problems)
 - 1. Connectivity (Can be checked with dfs/bfs)
 - 1-1. Shortest path (bfs for unweighted, dijkstra's for weighted)

 - 2. Cycles (if component (found by dfs) contains V nodes and more that V edges,
 the graph contains a cycle)
 - 2-1. If there are V nodes and V - 1 edges it forms a tree. (There are two concepts
 important in trees)
 - 2-1-1. MST (Kruska's algorithm, Prim's algorithm but not that important, not 
 essential topics; can be skipped for preparing coding interviews)
 - 2-1-2. Union-Find (We can merge dfs spanning trees)

 - 3. Bipartiteness: If any cycle contains odd number of edges it the component is not
 bipartite

2. Directed Graphs (Second main group of graph problems)
The reason why directed graphs have significance is that any dp problem has a 1-1
correspondence with a DAG, nodes represent states and edges represent transitions

 - 1. Topological sort (There may be multiple topological sorts)
 - 2. DP <=> DAG
 - 3. Strongly connected components (If a graph can be grouped by SCC's the entire
 can be reduced to a DAG, although this also doesn't feel like it's an essential
 topic)

My question I have came up when I was studying edge classification in dfs spanning 
trees for undirectional and directional graphs. I feel like the classification of
tree edges / (forward edges, backward edges, cross edges) could be useful for generalized
solving methods of graph problems so what's you take on this?

And also see if there are other "essential topics" I may add to the graph mental model
I say "essential" because prim's and kruskal's algorithm or network flow algorithms
or euler/hamiltonian circuit problems could have significance but feel less like the 
essence of what graph problems are in generalized

Also when solving minimum distance problems, I often use dfs + dp for problem solving
even for undirected graphs but here it says dp and DAGs have 1-1 correspondence. Does
that mean graph problems can be solved with dp but dp can only be modeled with DAGs?
That's how I understood it

Also see if having V nodes and > V edges is a valid condition for having a cycle in
both undirectional and directional graphs and see if having V nodes and V-1 edges
is a valid condition for the graph being a tree both in undirectional and directional
graphs